And of course we can add handlers for
all of the other HTTP verbs as well.
So we'll create a to-do slash ID
route by creating a new folder with
an ID parameter, and then inside there,
create our API route.
And we're gonna add a put handler and
a delete handler for
toggling and removing to dos,
using the toggle to do and
the delete to do functions that
are in the database JS file.
So in here once again we're
gonna import the database.
We're not importing the JSON help at this
time because we're not gonna need it.
Make our put handler first async
function PUT, we need the params
object this time so that we know
which to do we're dealing with.
And then we're gonna go and
grab request and cookies.
This time the data that we're getting from
the browser is gonna be a done property.
And as before,
we need to know the user's ID.
And we're gonna call the toggle
Todo function with that user ID,
with the ID of the current todo which
comes from the square brackets here.
And finally the data itself.
The response that we're gonna return this
time isn't actually gonna include any
data because we don't need to
return any data in this context.
So we'll return a new
response with a null body and
a status of 204, which is no content.
Added li handler as well
export async function DELETE.
This time you don't even
need to look at the request.
So we're just gonna get params and
cookies, get the user ID.
And then we'll call database.delete Todo,
pass in userid,
pass in the id from the params object.
And again,
we're gonna return an empty response.
Okay, so we can now interact with this
endpoint inside our event handlers.
First we'll add one inside the onchange
handler of the checkbox on the left.
Scroll down to where that is,
see the onchange handler here.
We're gonna call fetch and
this time we're gonna
pass in the ID of the Todo
as part of the URL, so
that it becomes available
on the params object.
The method for this one is PUT,
corresponding to the PUT
verb that we just defined.
And the data that we're
passing is whether or
not the Todo is done.
Then once again,
'Content-Type' : 'application/json'.
And then on the other side of the Todo
when the button gets clicked,
we're gonna post a DELETE
request to our handler.
I'm gonna send the request
to the same place.
This time, we don't need a body.
The request itself is enough.
And once that request succeeds,
we'll again mutate the array this time to
remove the one that we no longer need.
Do that by filtering on whether the member
of the array is the current Todo.
Okay, so
we can now mark todos as complete.
If I refresh the page, that should stay
checked and we can also delete them.
And if I refresh the page
that should stay deleted.
Okay, so that was a lot more work
than using a form action and
it won't work without JavaScript.
So I do recommend using form
actions where possible but
this is an option that you
have when you need it.
Okay, so
we got a question about whether or
not it makes sense to put the logic
in an API root handler or
in a server module inside
your lib directory.
And the answer is that you cannot
call function on the server directly
from within a page.svelte you have to go
via an API route or via a form action.
Unless you've set up
something like a third party,
like telephone call something that allows
you to do some sort of RPC mechanism.
And so the really is no distinction there.
You're gonna put some logic in your
API handlers but very often you'll
have some kind of an abstraction,
similar to our database JS file here,
where the actual database
manipulation is happening, and
your API routes will just be
calling these helper methods.
But there's always gonna be some
logic in an API route handler.
Hope that answers the question.
>> Let's say I want my endpoints
to be used later for a mobile app.
Is that okay or
would I need to rewrite the API?
>> Absolutely, these endpoints,
they are public HTTP endpoints and
if you disable the default
cross site request for
protection, then you can use
it as a regular public API.
You can use it within your app, and
you can make fetch calls against your own
endpoints, inside your load functions.
And that'll work without
issuing an HTTP call.
So you can build an API that way,
make it public but
also privately accessible and
that just works.
But the default assumption when
you're building a Svelte app is that
the API routes and the server load
functions are specifically for
the pages that you're building.
So it's entirely up to you if you
want to deviate from that and
open up your API to the well.
>> I could just import function from
lib utils.ts to get a function to do
the same things, like add remove
information from a database etc.
So what I want to do that or
implement API endpoints?
>> So if you're importing
the file inside your Page.svelte,
then that implies that that file
is available in the client.
And if you're doing that, then you
don't have direct access to a database.
You need to go through some HTTP layer
in order to interact with your back-end.
Later we'll learn about server
modules which cannot be imported into
a Page.svelte file,
which prevents you from making that error.
So yeah, you're not gonna be able to
directly manipulate the database from
within your component.
That is a deliberate design decision,
though we don't let you do that because
that way insecurity and madness lies.
So, yeah, you're always gonna
be going through API routes or
form actions when you wanna
mutate data on the server.